---
layout: post
author: me
title: Computers and Me
---

Computers are a big part of my life. They also (pretty uniformly) used to be "big", full stop, as well. 

Some of my earliest memories involve having fun in the local Apple Store in the "kids" area with giant ~~bounce spheres~~ chairs and even larger eMacs, playing included demo games and marveling at the streaky metal Finder windows of early Mac OS X. Those were huge magic boxes (weighing in excess of 20 kg -- about as much as I did!).

Even more imposing (but perhaps slightly less weighty) were the Power Macs, a powerful expression of engineering ingenuity and design philosophy (albeit perhaps ambivalently, given its cheese-grater chic). They confused me, though, as they had no included screen. What was the point, if you had to plug another "computer" (a monitor) into this one just to make it work?

As I've grown older (from then-on until some indeterminate date in the future) this "giant white magic box" definition has been routinely challenged and thus expanded to include a million different things. 
- My dad bought an iBook. (*Computers were flat and could fit on my lap!*) 
- Most larger computers started flattening out. (*Our school computer labs upgraded to Intel-based iMacs.*) 
- Apple released the iPhone. (*You could hold a computer with one hand!*)

Within a few short years, computers had suddenly become multitasking creation machines with multiple cores, productivity suites (*Microsoft Office*), dizzying graphical capabilities, and programs that let you tell the computer what to do in its own language (which, at the time, was just [Scratch](https://scratch.mit.edu/)). 

These two factors (the seeming explosion of functionality and vastly heterogeneous expression of form) have inexorably drawn me to computers with a grip I have not yet escaped.

I've thought about this story a lot in recent months with Apple's ongoing adoption of their own silicon, which itself forecasts another overhaul of personal computing. History is repeating itself in the broad strokes of this development (performance improvements, thermal/power advantages, architectural overhauls) and I hope to be a part of the revolutionary wave that follows.